  
before 1980 --> 
“what is happening”--> process-oriented model-->code acting on data.
Code is a set of instructions written to manipulate or process data. This includes reading input, performing calculations or logic, and producing output.

after 1980 --> 

“who is being affected.”--->object-oriented programming -->data controlling access to code.

🔹 In OOP, data and behavior are bundled together in classes and objects.
So when we say "data controls access to code", in OOP it shows up in several ways:


✅ 1. Access Modifiers (Encapsulation)
In OOP, we use access modifiers (private, public, protected) to control access to data and methods from outside the class.
✅ 2. Polymorphism / Method Overriding with Conditions
A subclass can decide whether or not to allow certain behavior based on internal data (state).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Inheritance:

class subclass-name extends superclass-name { 
   // body of class 
}

Definition of Inheritance:

Inheritance is a fundamental principle in object-oriented programming that allows a class to inherit properties and behaviors (methods) from another class.
This uses "extends" keyword

Advantages of Inheritance:

Reusability: Inheritance promotes the reuse of existing code without having to rewrite it.
Readability: It makes the code more simple by establishing clear relationships between classes.
Hierarchy: Establishes parent-child relationships between Classes and Interfaces, making the structure easier to understand and maintain.

Types of Inheritance:

Single: A class inherits from one parent class.
Multiple: A class inherits behaviors from more than one class, typically achieved through interfaces in Java.
Multilevel: A class inherits from a child class, creating a multilevel chain.
Hierarchical: Multiple classes inherit from a single parent class.
Hybrid: A combination of multilevel and hierarchical inheritance.


Java Examples:

RuntimeException extends Exception
List extends Collection
Selenium WebDriver Examples: - 
ChromeDriver extends ChromiumDriver - EdgeDriver extends ChromiumDriver - ChromiumDriver extends RemoteWebDriver
